INTRODUCTION TO PYTHON
Python is a high-level object-oriented programming language.
It was developed by Guido Van Rossum in 1989 and was released in 1991.
The name python was taken from the popular BBC comedy show of that time "Monty Python's Flying Circus".

FEATURES OF PYTHON
1. Easy to use and learn: python has a simple structure and a clearly defined syntax thus allows the learner to pick up
the language easily.
2. Cross platform: python can run on different operating systems such as: windows, linux and mac.
This makes it  a portable language, it enables programmers to develop the software for several competing platform by
writing a program only once.
3. Free and Open-Source: it is freely available at official website and its source code is available to the public.
4. Object Oriented Language: It uses an Object Oriented Approach that encapsulates codes within objects
5. Large Standard Library: it provides a collection of libraries for various tasks such as: ML, web development and data
 analysis.
6. Memory Management: In python you don't need to assign the data type of the variable, when you assign some value to
the variable it automatically allocates the memory to the variable at runtime.

USES OF PYTHON PROGRAMMING
1. It is used to develop desktop applications
2. It is used to build web applications
3. It is popularly used in the field of data science, ML and AI to analyse data, build predictive models and make
business decisions
4. It is widely used in game development.

POPULAR PYTHON FRAMEWORKS AND LIBRARIES
1. Web development(server-side) Django, Flask, Pyramid, CherryPy
2. GUI based applications: Tk(tkinter), PyGTK, PyQt, PyJs(Python javascript)
3. Machine Learning: Tensorflow, PyTorch, Scikit-learn, Matplotlib
4. Mathematics: Numpy, pandas

BEST PYTHON IDEs
They are used to write programs in python and perform specific tasks.
1. Jupyter Notebook: it is part of the anaconda distribution that is widely used this days.
2. VS Code: it is from microsoft and is most preferred for learners and companies
3. Sublime text: it is the most popular text editor
4. Pycharm
5. Python IDLE
6. Spyder Notebook

TOP COMPANIES USING PYTHON
    1. Google
    2. Quora
    3. Facebook
    4. Netflix
    5. Instagram
    6. Spotify
    7. IBM

INSTALLATION:
1. Install Python- latest version for your Operating System.
2. Confirm python is install successfully: in Command prompt(cmd) type: python --version
3. Install python libraries(numpy, scipy, matplotlib and pandas) USING pip:
4. Install latest pip version: to check if it is installed using this command in cmd: pip --version
To upgrade pip: python -m pip install --upgrade pip
Install numpy: pip install numpy             to confirm it is installed try importing the library
Install scipy: pip install scipy             to confirm it is installed try importing the library
Install Pandas: pip install pandas           to confirm it is installed try importing the library
Install Matplotlib: pip install matplotlib   to confirm it is installed try importing the library

CHECKING NUMPY
import numpy as np
a=np.array([[1,2,4], [5,7,9]],dtype = 'float')
print("Array Created:\n", a)












PYTHON DEVELOPER ROADMAP
Features of a good python developer
    1. Have a problem solving mindset
    2. Have strong communication skills – be able to communicate project requirements and features to your team.
    3. Be eager to learn new tools and libraries.
    4. Have knowledge on how things work internally.
    5. Have strong technical skills
Salary Range for a python developer annually:
In India: ₹5,55,000 = ksh.852,697.17
In USA: $125,180 = ksh. 16,148,220

WHAT IS PYTHON:
It is a general purpose interpreted programming language.
Due to its extreme varsatility it is one of the most used language by: data scientists, software engineers and web developers.
It is used in: Data analysis, machone learning, artificial intelligence, web development, web scraping, competentive programming etc.

BENEFITS OF A PYTHON
    1. It has a basic syntax and is easily readable.
    2. It makes the language easy to learn for both beginners and intermidiate programmers.
    3. It is a multipurpose programming language with many practical libraries and analytical capabilities.
    4. It enables programmers to write programs with fewer lines of codes.
    5. It is an open source hence all Operating systems can utilize it for free.
    6. It is the most productive language
    7. It has a wide range of applications.
    8. It has a vast and active community
    9. It has built-in libraries and frameworks
FUNDAMENTALS OF PYTHON PROGRAMMING
    1. Basic syntax
    2. Hands on any code editor: vim or Jupyter notebook, google colab and atom
    3. Study python indentation
    4. Learn loops and logical operators
    5. Learn data types and variables
    6. Learn operators
    7. Study strings and numbers.
    8. Knowledge of conditional statements and type conversions.
    9. Learn functions and built-in functions.
DATA STRUCTURES AND ALGORITHMS(DSA)
It serves as any computer language building blocks.
It is a requirement for both coding and software development
To master DSA you should learn:
    1. Arrays and Linked list
    2. Binary search trees and recursion
    3. python lists and tuples
    4. dictionaries, sets and slicing
    5. stacks and queues
    6. hashing, hash tables and graph traversing
    7. sorting algorithms, divide and conquer algorithms, etc
    8. dynamic programming
ADVANCED CONCEPTS IN PYTHON
    1. Object Oriented programming
    2. methods
    3. functional programming
    4. inheritance
    5. decorators
    6. lambda functions
    7. classes
    8. regular expressions

